Good afternoon Problem Solvers! Hope you're enjoying this hot summer Wednesday! Er, well, maybe just 'this Wednesday.'

But you should enjoy THIS Wednesday because it's time for a new Problem of the Week!

First off, a solution to the last problem: Kirkman's Schoolgirl Problem. Turns out the problem has strong roots in abstract algebra and combinatorics, and applications in organizing dinner parties, networking events, and sports tournaments.

There are 15*14*13 = 2730 triples of fifteen elements without duplicates, which means there are 2730/6 = 455 distinct unordered triples ([1,2,3] is counted the same as [1,3,2].) For this problem, we only need 35 triples out of this set of 455. Trivial.

Except there are only 7 non-isomorphic (different structure and not just changing the numbering) solutions to the Schoolgirl Problem. For the solution I found, and a simple overview of some of the math behind the problem and how I came up with a solution, check out the Problem repo: https://github.com/EtaPi/potw_06242015

And now for Problem of the Week Five:

This one is less of a Problem, and more just trying something new. Pick a new language that you've never used before, and write a simple program. Some ideas:

  * A todo app- a command line app with three options; todo, which creates a new todo, list, which lists all your current todos, and remove, which deletes a todo.
  * Algorithms- implement Factorial and Fibonacci. See if the language supports things like memoization and recursion.
  * Search/Count- Reads in files in the current directory, searches for a string, and prints out instances of the string or the total count.
  * Anything you want!

Capabilities to focus on are string, number, or array manipulation, as well as file IO. Keep it simple and explore something new!

Part of this Problem may be setting up your environment; on Macs it's pretty easy to get Python, Ruby, Bash, etc working, but it's not so easy to get those working on a Windows machine. Some of those have nice online editors, so google something like 'python fiddle' or 'ruby fiddle' to find a nice in-browser editor.

Let me know what language you pick, and I can send out statistics next week!

Enjoy,
Daniel Kelley
